README.md, before:

# sps-python-microservices

Microservices solution built with Python

This is a microservices solution which is a simple Flask app that serves a Blog API. It is built with the following technologies:

- [Python](https://www.python.org/) - The programming language used
- [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) - The web framework used
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) - The database used

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or higher
- MongoDB (optional)

## Installing

- Clone the repository

### Local

- Create a virtual environment and activate it

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

- Install the dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

- Set the environment variables.

```bash
export FLASK_APP=flaskr
```

- For the DATABASE you can use a config.py file in the */instance* folder, follow the example in config-example.py provided at */docs*. Or you can set the MONGODB_URI environment variable.

```bash
export MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/flaskr
```

(if you are not using MongoDB locally you can use a remote MongoDB Atlas instance instead at [https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas))

- Run the app

```bash
flask run
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

Commit message:

add health and docs endpoints

README.md, after:

# sps-python-microservices

Microservices solution built with Python

This is a microservices solution which is a simple Flask app that serves a Blog API. It is built with the following technologies:

- [Python](https://www.python.org/) - The programming language used
- [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) - The web framework used
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) - The database used

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or higher
- MongoDB (optional)

## Installing

- Clone the repository

### Local

- Create a virtual environment and activate it

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

- Install the dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

- Set the environment variables.

```bash
export FLASK_APP=flaskr
```

- For the DATABASE you can use a config.py file in the */instance* folder, follow the example in config-example.py provided at */docs*. Or you can set the MONGODB_URI environment variable.

```bash
export MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/flaskr
```

(if you are not using MongoDB locally you can use a remote MongoDB Atlas instance instead at [https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas))

- Run the app

```bash
flask run
```

## Resources

Resources are the main components of the application. All of them are accessible through the API endpoint.

### API description endpoint

The documentation is available at the */spec* endpoint.

- GET /spec - Get the Swagger documentation (JSON)

### Healthcheck

The Healthcheck endpoint is a simple endpoint that returns the health of the API.

- GET /api/health - Get the health of the application

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details
